---
title: "Meetup Summary (March, 2018"
---

The March Monthly meetup was held at Adlife Plaza. Members started
streaming in from 1400Hrs.

Black Panther is a recent film based on a Marvel Character by the
same name. It is basically about a country in Africa, that was
successfully able to avoid colonization and has been hiding its
technological prowess from the world.

The movie has been lauded by critics and audiences all over. Some
of the book club members had also watched the film, and there were
mixed reactions to it.

The people who didn't like the film felt like it focussed a lot
on what an American's modern Africa looked like. This resulted in
too much similarity to American scifis than would be comfortable.

Furthermore, the movie focuses a lot on African culture. This is a
good thing, but the problem is that this is hauled as one of the
key points in the film. Imagine a hypothetical country like
Wakanda that is the most advanced in the world, and it's African.
Yet culture is the best thing in it. It can be argued that this
implies Africans are only worth in entertainment because of this.

Another argument raised was that vibranium is of critical use in
Wakanda. It is used everywhere, which kinda implies that the only
way Africa can develop to that level is if it had some divine
intervention.

For a movie that was primarily of black cast, an argument was
raised that it was pretty good. The success of the movie would
lead to more inclusion in Hollywood. A counter to that was if that
was what blacks could come up with, with all the resources given,
it was pretty disappointing.

# Animes discussed:

As with all book clubs, anime was discussed. Key was One Piece,
Full Metal Alchemist, ReZero and Death Note.

One Piece was hailed as one of the greatest anime of all time.
However, it currently clocks over 800 episodes (around 280 Hrs),
which is a great obstacle to get over. One of the beauties of
anime is the implications the story line has like the Gorosei
wanting to have beautiful slaves, the racism with the fishmen,
luffy's decision to search for freedom and many more. For
potential fans, you're advised to start watching it because it's
only going to get longer and longer.

One Piece: freedom, slavery
Full Metal Alchemist

# Books discussed

## Harry Potter and the methods of Rationality
This takes a turn at the Harry Potter series. It is written by
Eliezer Yudkowsky. It takes an approach where Harry Potter is
actually smart and makes better decisions than in the original
books. Those who read it claimed it changes their view of the
original book.

## Wheel of Time series
This is a 13 book series, written between 1990 and 2013. Each
blocks has around 900 pages. I'm currently reading book 2 and its
a pretty interesting fantasy series. Also since the series is
done, I won't have to wait another 6 years like the Game of
Thrones for another book.

## Other books

Katherine Boo's Behind the Beautiful Forevers came up again. It is
a beautiful story set in India that describes the concept of a
glass ceiling. It is a beautiful story that is more set in
hopeless reality than happy endings.

# General
For IT practitioners in Kenya, some people feel frustrated by what
their work mate's lack of effort to try to fix common problems
causes. This has led to most being condenscending to their work
mates. This should however not be case. This is because if these
other poeple took up this effort, it would end up in job loss for
others. Also while it can be really frustrating to fix the same
thing for the same person day in day out, we should try to be
understanding because that is not the specialty of the person.

What should happend when some one achieves all their goals in
line? Should they just die? Should they kill themselves or
continue living their lives (which will be pointless at this
point)? Leo Tolstoy's book deal with existentialism, so one might
find answers there.

When someone is successful at something, the first praise is
usually to God. It usually goes like " I praise God for this" or
"I could not have done this were it not for God". The problem with
this is that it implies that others who failed were not worthy of
winning/succeeding. The problem with this is that people watching
at the sides will assume that is the case. Some may even forget
about the hard work put into the work, and go into bat-shit crazy
God mode. I think if one is successful, they should be honest
about what led to it. Put in hard work, as the major points and
end in God (although luck would be a better fit).
<!-- Religion and Society: What are the consequences of someone -->
<!-- praising God as the only reason for their success? This causes -->
<!-- people to forget that s/he worked hard to get their and focussed -->
<!-- their efforts on prayer. -->
